Docs: Team LBAC create concept and tasks (#82020)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/data-source-management/teamlbac/create-teamlbac-rules/index.md

---
description: Learn how to create Team LBAC rules for the Loki data source.
keywords:
  - loki
  - lbac
  - team
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - cloud
title: Create Team LBAC rules for the Loki data source
weight: 250
---

# Create Team LBAC rules for the Loki data source

Team LBAC is available on Cloud for data sources created with basic authentication. Any managed Loki data source can **NOT** be configured with Team LBAC rules.

## Before you begin

- Be sure that you have admin data source permissions for Grafana.
- Be sure that you have a team setup in Grafana.

### Create a Team LBAC Rule for a team

1. Navigate to your Loki datasource
1. Navigate to the permissions tab
   - Here, you'll find the Team LBAC rules section.
1. Add a Team LBAC Rule
   - Add a new rule for the team in the Team LBAC rules section.
1. Define Label Selector for the Rule
   - Add a label selector to the rule. Refer to Loki query documentation for guidance on the types of log selections you can specify.

#### Best practices

We recommend you only add `query` permissions for teams that should use the data source and only `Admin` have `Admin` permissions.

> We recommend for a first setup, setting up as few rules as possible for each team and make them additive for simplicity.

Reviewer: > and make them additive

What does this mean?

Author: `additive` - namespace="dev|prod" making them select the logs they would like to view, rather than negating the logs they would like to view.

@alexanderzobnin do you think it is too much of a recommendation?

Reviewer: I just think it's hard to understand

---

> aliases:
>   - ../../../enterprise/activate-aws-marketplace-license/activate-license-on-ecs/
>   - ../../../enterprise/license/activate-aws-marketplace-license/activate-license-on-ecs/

Reviewer 2: I think these come from copy-paste and should be removed.
```suggestion
```

> description: Configure Team LBAC rules for Loki data source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to create Team LBAC rules for the Loki data source.
```

keywords:
  - grafana
  - ecs
  - enterprise
  - aws
  - marketplace

>   - activate

Reviewer 2: These keywords don't look right, probably copy-paste from an existing file?

Author: removed

@jdbaldry wanted to see if this was the overall structure of how we would make the concept and tasks, so sorry for the imperfect PR 👯

Reviewer 2: No worries at all :) thanks for coming back to restructure things!

labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss

> title: Configure Team LBAC rules for a Loki data source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Create Team LBAC rules for the Loki data source
```

weight: 250
---

> # Configure Team LBAC for Loki data source on Grafana Cloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Create Team LBAC rules for the Loki data source
```

1. Add a Team LBAC Rule
   - Add a new rule for the team in the Team LBAC rules section.
1. Define Label Selector for the Rule
   - Add a label selector to the rule. Refer to Loki query documentation for guidance on the types of log selections you can specify.

#### Best practices

We recommend you only add team LBAC permissions for teams that should use the data source and remove default `Viewer` and `Editor` query permissions.

We recommend for a first setup, setting up as few rules for each team as possible and make them additive and not negated.

For validating the rules, we recommend testing the rules in the Loki Explore view. This will allow you to see the logs that would be returned for the rule.

#### Tasks

### Task 1: One rule setup for each team

We have two teams, Team A and Team B. Loki access is setup with `Admin` roles to have `Admin` permission only.

- Team A has a rule `namespace="dev"`.

- Team B has a rule `namespace="prod"`.

A user that is part of Team A will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"`.

A user that is part of Team B will have access to logs that match `namespace="prod"`.

### Task 2: Multiple rules setup for one team

> We have two teams, Team A and Team B. Loki access is setup with `Admin` roles having `Admin` permission.

Reviewer: What about permissions for team A and B?

Author: I realize that we need to have that clear as well.

We need to make it clear about RBAC Roles, Teams and User permissions to then act with the Team LBAC permissions.

>     'Warning: This team has full data access with no Team LBAC rules applied.'

We should cover for team access
We should cover for roles access

Author: revising the docs to have a section, explaining a short summary of RBAC and then what LBAC entails.

> - Team A has rule `cluster="us-west-0", namespace="dev|prod"` configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Team A has rule `cluster="us-west-0", namespace=~"dev|prod"` configured.
```

> - Team B has rule `cluster="us-west-0", namespace="!prod"` configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Team B has rule `cluster="us-west-0", namespace!="prod"` configured.
```

A user that is only part of Team A will have access to logs that match `cluster="us-west-0" AND (namespace="dev" OR namespace="prod")`.

A user that is only part of Team B will have access to logs that match `cluster="us-west-0" AND namespace!="prod"`.

> A user that is part of both Team A and Team B will have access to logs that match `cluster="us-west-0" AND (namespace="dev" OR namespace="prod") OR (is this true?) (cluster="us-west-0" AND namespace!="prod")`.

Reviewer: It's might be easier to understand if we write it in a simplier form. Team A has access to logs in cluster `us-west-0` with namespaces `dev` and `prod`. Team B has access to to everything in cluster `us-west-0`, except namespace `prod`. So basically, user who is member of both team A and team B has access to everything in cluster `us-west-0`.

Author: > So basically, user who is member of both team A and team B has access to everything in cluster us-west-0.

Il change this to be !="prod" -> ="staging"

A user that is **not** part of any Team with `Editor/Viewer` role will not have access to query any logs.

**Important**

A `Admin` user that is part of a Team with will only have access to that teams logs

A `Admin` user that is not part of any Team with `Admin` role will have access to all logs

### Task 3: Rules that overlap

We have two teams, Team A and Team B.

- Team A has a rule `namespace="dev"`.

- Team B has a rule `namespace!="dev"`.

A user in Team A will have access to logs that match `namespace="dev"`.

> A user in Team b will have access to logs that match `namespace!="dev"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user in Team B will have access to logs that match `namespace!="dev"`.
```

> > _NOTE:_ A user that is part of Team A and Team B will have access to all logs that match `namespace="dev"` `OR` `namespace!="dev"`.

Reviewer: That's basically, all the logs.

Author: yea that's the idea of the example 👍

Reviewer: But could we mention this to clarify
